README.md, before:

# RachelTracker

## [Programmer Notes](ObserverHowTo.md)


This project was generated using [Angular CLI](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli) version 19.1.6.

## Development server

To start a local development server, run:

```bash
ng serve
```

Once the server is running, open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The application will automatically reload whenever you modify any of the source files.

## Code scaffolding

Angular CLI includes powerful code scaffolding tools. To generate a new component, run:

```bash
ng generate component component-name
```

For a complete list of available schematics (such as `components`, `directives`, or `pipes`), run:

```bash
ng generate --help
```

## Building

To build the project run:

```bash
ng build
```

This will compile your project and store the build artifacts in the `dist/` directory. By default, the production build optimizes your application for performance and speed.

## Running unit tests

To execute unit tests with the [Karma](https://karma-runner.github.io) test runner, use the following command:

```bash
ng test
```

## Running end-to-end tests

For end-to-end (e2e) testing, run:

```bash
ng e2e
```

Angular CLI does not come with an end-to-end testing framework by default. You can choose one that suits your needs.

## Additional Resources

For more information on using the Angular CLI, including detailed command references, visit the [Angular CLI Overview and Command Reference](https://angular.dev/tools/cli) page.

## Leaflet Integration

Run
 ```
npm install leaflet
npm install @types/leaflet
```

import { json_cboutline } from '../../assets/cboutline';

Commit message:

updating README to reference external file

README.md, after:

# RachelTracker

## [Programmer Notes](ObserverHowTo.md)


This project was generated using [Angular CLI](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli) version 19.1.6.

## Development server

To start a local development server, run:

```bash
ng serve
```

Once the server is running, open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The application will automatically reload whenever you modify any of the source files.

## Code scaffolding

Angular CLI includes powerful code scaffolding tools. To generate a new component, run:

```bash
ng generate component component-name
```

For a complete list of available schematics (such as `components`, `directives`, or `pipes`), run:

```bash
ng generate --help
```

## Building

To build the project run:

```bash
ng build
```

This will compile your project and store the build artifacts in the `dist/` directory. By default, the production build optimizes your application for performance and speed.

## Running unit tests

To execute unit tests with the [Karma](https://karma-runner.github.io) test runner, use the following command:

```bash
ng test
```

## Running end-to-end tests

For end-to-end (e2e) testing, run:

```bash
ng e2e
```

Angular CLI does not come with an end-to-end testing framework by default. You can choose one that suits your needs.

## Additional Resources

For more information on using the Angular CLI, including detailed command references, visit the [Angular CLI Overview and Command Reference](https://angular.dev/tools/cli) page.

## Leaflet Integration

Run
 ```
npm install leaflet
npm install @types/leaflet
```


## Using Data/Methods Stored in External File

In order to reference variables/methods defined in external file, three (3) elements are required:
- Declare the variable in the external file containing TS/JS with

     ```
    export var variableName = 
     ```
- In the component file
     ```
    import { json_cboutline } from '../../assets/cboutline';
    ```
- Add relative file location to the scripts array  in the projects body within the angular.json file
    ```
    scripts": ["src/assets/cboutline.js"]
    ```
